Generalized Pigeonhole Principle: 
**If there are $n$ pigeons and $k$ pigeon holes, there is at least 1 pigeonhole containing *at least* $\lceil \frac{n}{k} \rceil$ pigeons. Equivalently, there is at least 1 pigeonhole containing *more than* $\lceil \frac{n-1}{k} \rceil$ pigeons.** 
> Base theorem: If $n + 1$ pigeons are placed in $n$ pigeonholes, there is at least one pigeonhole containing two or more pigeons. 
> 
> Ex: Prove that in a group of 40, at least 4 people have the same birth month
> Solution: 
> Let the people be pigeons, and the 12 months be pigeonholes. By the Pigeonhole Principle (PHP) there is at least 1 month with at least $\lceil \frac{40}{12} \rceil = 4$ people with that birth month.
> 
> Ex: Prove that if 6 distinct numbers are chosen from $[9] = \{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9\}$, then two of the numbers will sum to $10$.
> Solution: 
> Let the five subsets $\{1, 9\}$ $\{2, 8\}$ $\{3, 7\}$ $\{4, 6\}$ $\{5\}$ be the pigeon holes.
> Let the 6 numbers be the pigeons. Each number must go into one of the pigeon holes. By the PHP, there is at least 1 pigeon hole which have two numbers that sum to 10.
> 
> Ex: An athlete works out in blocks of hours. He plans to work out a total of 45 hours in a 30-day month. Assume he works out at least 1 hour each day. Prove that there is a period of 1 day or consecutive days where the cumulative hours he has worked out is a total of exactly 14 hours. 
> Solution:
> Let $a_i$ be the accumulated hours up to day $i$. This is a sequence of length 30, $a_1, a_2, \ldots a_{30} = 45$. Consider the new sequence $b_1 = a_1 + 14$, $b_2 = a_2 + 14$, $b_{30} = a_{30} + 14$.
> Observe that $\{a_i\}^{30}_{i=1}$ are distinct, and $\{b_i\}^{30}_{i=1}$ are distinct
> However the largest value of the sequences is $59$, but there are 60 sequence values. By the PHP, there exists some $a_i$ equal to $b_j$, so $a_i = b_j = a_j + 14$
> There exists days $j$ to $i$ where he worked out exactly 14 hours