Let $a_1, a_2, \ldots a_k$ be non negative integers such that $\sum_{i=1}^k a_i = n$. 
Then the ordered k-tuple $(a_1, \ldots a_k)$ is a **weak composition** of $n$ into $k$ parts.
+
Theorem (Stars and Bars): 
The number of weak compositions of $n$ into $k$ parts is **$\binom{n + k - 1}{ k -1}$**. 
+
Proof: 
Let the $n$ elements be stars. We model a weak composition as follows: we draw $k$ bars, and the total stars to the right of bar $i$ (before bar $i + 1$) is the value of $a_i$.
Bar 1 is fixed in the first position. We choose the location of the remaining $k - 1$ bars, and this uniquely determines a weak composition. Thus there are $\binom{n + k - 1}{k - 1}$ ways.

---

Example: Give $n$ dollars to $k$ people. Note $1 + 4 + 5 = 5 + 4 + 1$ are different cases. 

Example: Suppose there are 10 cans of Coke, 10 cans of Pepsi, 10 cans of Sprite. How many ways can you take 4 sodas?

Solution: We want $x_1 + x_2 + x_3 = 4$ ($n = 4, k=3$). Total ways is $\binom{4 + 3 - 1}{3 - 1}$

Example: What about if each $x_i$ must be at least 1?

Solution: We first give each $x_i$ a value of $1$ (eg give each person $1), then do weak compositions of $n- k$ into $k$ parts. 


---

The total number of k-tuples ($a_1, a_2, \ldots a_k$) such that $\sum_{i=1}^k a_i = n$ with each $a_i$ being a positive integer is **$\binom{(n - k) + k - 1}{k - 1} = \binom{n-1}{k-1}$**, called the **total compositions** of $n$ into $k$ parts
.

Definition: A **Stirling number of the second kind** denoted $S(n, k)$ is the **number of partitions of $[n] = \{1, 2, \ldots n\}$ into exactly $k$ blocks**.
By convention, $S(0, 0) = **1**$
If $k > n$, then $S(n, k) = 0$
> Definition: Let $X$ be a finite set and let $A_1, A_2, \ldots A_k$ be non-empty subsets of $X$. A partition of $X$, $\{A_1, A_2, \ldots A_k\}$, satisfies:
> - $\cup^k_{i=1}A_i = X = A_1 \cup A_2 \cup \ldots \cup A_k$.
> - $A_i \cap A_j = \emptyset, 1 \leq i \neq j \leq k$ (pairwise disjoint)
> For a given $k$, we say $X$ is partitioned into $k$ blocks

Theorem: 
For all positive integers $n \geq k$, $S(n, k) = **S(n - 1, k - 1)** + **1::kS(n - 1, k)**$
> Proof: LHS: Total ways to partition $[n]$ into $k$ blocks. 
> RHS: We consider partitions where element 1 is or is not a singleton subset.
> If it is, then we partition the remaining $n- 1$ elements into $k - 1$ blocks in $S(n - 1, k-1)$ ways.
> To count partitions where element $1$ is not a singleton block, we first partition $\{2, 3, \ldots n\}$ into $k$ blocks, in $S(n-1, k)$ ways, then choose one of the $k$ blocks to place element 1 (assuring the block has at least 2 elements). This can be done in $k S(n- 1, k)$ ways.

Theorem: 
For $n \geq k$, we have $S(n, k) = **\frac{1}{k!}\sum^k_{i=0} (-1)^i \binom{k}{i} (k - i)^n**$
> Proof: Later
> +
> Example:
> Let $f: A \to B$, $|A| = n$, $|B| = k$
> Recall $f$ is surjective, or onto if for every $b \in B$, there exists an $a \in A$ such that $f(a) = b$. How many surjective functions are there? We consider partitioning the domain $[n]$ into $k$ blocks, where each block corresponds to a range value. This is $S(n, k)$ ways. For each block, we must decide which $k$ value it maps to. There will be $k!$ such ways.
> Total surjective functions is $k!S(n, k)$

Definition:
The total number of partitions of $[n]$ (any number of blocks) is a **Bell** number, $B(n) = \sum^n_{k=1}S(n, k)$
+
Theorem: We have $B(n) = \sum^n_{i=1} \binom{n - 1}{i-1}B(n-i)$
+
Proof:
LHS: All ways to partition $[n]$
RHS: We consider the cases of the subset that element 1 lies in. Consider a subset of size $i$. We fix element 1 and choose any $i - 1$ elements from the remaining $n - 1$ elements in $\binom{n-1}{i-1}$ ways. Then we partition the remaining $n-i$ elements in any way, yielding $B(n-i)$ ways.
> ex: $n = 3:  \{\{1\}, \{2\}, \{3\}\}, \{\{1,2,3\}\}, \{\{1\}, \{2,3\}\}, \{\{2\}, \{1,3\}\}, \{\{3\}, \{1,2\}\}$