# Creating a Document: Basics

- Your document should all be in the same font and in general, font color.
- Your document should be complete, in that everything in there should be understandable for the contents, or from what it references
- Your document needs to have headers dividing up sections
- There needs to be a reasonable flow to it.

# Italics, bold, and capitalization

- Italics: When you want to put emphasis on a specific thing.
- Bold: For things like specific terms. You can also use it for warnings. Do note use bold to draw someone's eyes to various keywords.

# Punctuation

- Exclamation point: Don't use in formal writing, period.
- Hyphen: Used to connect two words in a two-word phrase.
- Em-dash: Sometimes, you'd like to create space between two sentence parts--and em-dash is perfect for this.
- Semi-colon: Can be used similarly to an em-dash.
- Spacing: Each period should have one space after it.

# Headings And Bulleted Lists

- Headings should start large and get smaller as they become sub headings.
- Bulleted lists should be used only if you have lists of similar pieces of information

# Report Structure

- Introduction–all relevant context needed to understand what you’ve done, a quick overview of what you’ve done, and a brief summary of your results.
- Background–an extended summary of the data you used and what it contained.
- Methodology–How you did your analysis
- Findings–What interesting results you produced
- Future Work–Anything else that needs to be done (optional)
- Appendix–All the boring details that someone might need to look up later

# Language and Code-Switching

Words that are acceptable in other parts of English are often avoided in 'technical' work.

- Hard-->Difficult
- Also-->In addition to
- Right-->Correct

# Avoid first person. Favor passive voice.

Never interject anything about your own emotional state.

# Remove All Unnecessary Words 

- be concise
- you don’t need to say something is “really large” or that you found a “variety of issues”. If you feel the need to communicate the size of something, describe it qualitatively.
- "We created an efficient solution..." If your solution was inefficient, we wouldn't be talking about it.
- Be suspicious of any adverb in your writing.

# The Flow of a Data Science Presentation 

- What your data is and where it comes from  
- Any preprocessing you did (keep this to a bare minimum, and drop it entirely if you can)  
- Some slides about the demographics of your data, and anything interesting you've found there
- One or two interesting / surprising actionable insights
- Advice for how to take advantage of those
- Conclusions

# extra credit!

## Belief dependency on gender and time

## Relationship between adults and political beliefs using chi squared test

***


