Exam will be: series of short answer, pandas questions, mostly conceptual

# data types 

Categorical
Ordinal: ordered but fixed values
Numerical 

***

# wrong format

To rectify complicated errors in data, use `df.**apply()**`

# evolving label schemes

Let's say a 5 star rating was changed to thumbs up / thumbs down. We should set the cutoff from thumbs up/down to **where the two distributions will be the same**.


# duplicated records 

If they are exact duplicates, use **`df.drop_duplicates()`**
> otherwise need to identify which entry has the best data

# removing outliers

Removing the outlier **sometimes::sometimes/always/never** 
> is the outlier an unusual event that will likely not happen again? eg "light intensity during an eclipse"
> is the outlier something that will hurt the model? eg factoring in Bezos when doing financial transactions
> is the outlier core to your data? eg profits during sale

# missing data

Solutions to *randomly* missing data: **dropping row (if under 5%)**, **imputation**
> missing data is usually not random! eg "what's your gpa, no one is going to flex their 1.9"

Imputation types:
**median** imputation: set value to the median of that column
**mode** imputation: fill in with most common value
**hot-deck** imputation: find a row that is most similar to the one with the missing value, and copy that value
**Bayesian** imputation: model based method that uses Bayesian statistics to estimate missing values
> only use when random!
> imputation using framing data: eg: joining two points together in a time graph

Types of incorrect data:
- People lie (house)
- Your instrument broke
- Recording wrong metrics
- Wrong **default** values

To detect incorrect data:
Look at **graphs of distributions (max, min too)**, if not, then at least **modes** 
> - Attractors (eg few 5'9" people but a lot of 6')
> - Discontinuities 
> - data outside valid bounds 
> - suddenly a field increases an order of magnitude for no reason (units change?)

Boundary conditions when graphs suddenly **cut off** are cause for concern.
> can limit analysis
> fix instrument

It is sometimes useful to look at data over **time**. 

Never confuse the **instrument** with what you are trying to measure
> eg police arrests vs density of cocaine over weight. police may round up!



***
