**Privacy is a social construction that has changed meaning over time. Privacy as we know it today is based in individual rights. What might privacy look like if it had a group or collective meaning? In other words, what changes if we move from "my privacy" to "our privacy?"**

While pre-renaissance societies were largely communal and privacy as a concept was therefore effectively nonexistent, a contemporary shift to a collective definition of privacy would not regress its strength. In fact, a shift to a collective definition of privacy should serve to strengthen individual rights as well. This is because the endangerment of one persons rights would endanger the privacy of the group, thus prompting further action. Collective action to protect individual rights hopefully alleviates the typical behavior highlighted in Martin Niemöller's "First They Came" poem on Nazi Germany persecution and the resultant apathy of groups adjacent to the persecution.

Signs of a shift to a collective definition of privacy are arguably already evident in segments of society. As in the past, some shifts are driven by capitalism. For example, corporations have strict operational rules protecting intellectual content generated by employees of the corporation, and employees are urged to take action against any possible compromises to this collective definition of privacy. However, capitalism also goes against collective privacy; big tech famously generates most of its revenue off the privacy invasions of large groups of people.

**Use the Foucault reading and video to analyze: in your own life, where and when do you happily self-surveil? What social rewards or benefits do you get from this?**

I self-surveil by attempting strict adherence to my digital calendar where I time block activities (like when I'll do homework, when I'll do my laundry, etc). When the self-surveillance is successful, I complete necessary tasks more efficiently leaving more time for leisure and less stress closer to deadlines. This allows me to spend more time with friends talking, eating, going to events, etc that is definitely a social reward.

**Provide at least one question for Friday's discussion.**

We talked a lot about what privacy is. Is the algorithmic matching of our interactions with a service (like Instagram, Google, Youtube) to show us more tuned advertisements necessarily an infringement on privacy? We interact with these services out of free will and agree to terms of service, so this could merely be a simple transaction. Let's assume that data is guaranteed to be properly stored such that no individual can access it. 

# discussion notes

What are the challenges of moving away from such an individualized conception of privacy?

Is this empowering? Or does it further subject us to the desires of the surveillant?

When is surveillance overbearing and invading our privacy? When is it not?

Why do we have seemingly strong fears of surveillance?
> there are definitely benefits! think demography, census, IRS, etc